Insurgent attacks to disrupt Baghdad's supplies of crude oil, gasoline, heating oil, water
and electricity have reached a degree of coordination and sophistication not seen before,
Iraqi and American officials say. The new pattern, they say, shows that the insurgents 
have a deep understanding of the complex network of pipelines, power cables and reservoirs 
feeding Baghdad, the Iraqi capital. The shadowy insurgency is a fractured movement made up 
of distinct groups of Sunnis, Shiites and foreign fighters, some of them aligned and some not.
But the shift in the attack patterns strongly suggests that some branch of the insurgency is 
carrying out a systematic plan to cripple Baghdad's ability to provide basic services for its 
six million citizens and to prevent the fledgling government from operating. A new analysis 
by some of those officials shows that the choice of targets and the timing of sabotage attacks
has evolved over the past several months, shifting from economic targets to become what 
amounts to a siege of the capital. In a stark illustration of the change, of more than 30 
sabotage attacks on the oil infrastructure this year, no reported incident has involved the 
southern crude oil pipelines that are Iraq's main source of revenue. Instead, the attacks 
have aimed at gas and oil lines feeding power plants and refineries and providing fuel for 
transportation around Baghdad and in the north. In an indication of how carefully chosen the 
targets are and how knowledgeable the insurgency is about the workings of the infrastructure,
the sabotage often disrupts the lives of Iraqis, leaving them dependent on chugging, 
street-corner generators to stave off the darkness and power televisions or radios, robbing 
them of fuel for stoves and heaters, and even halting the flow of their drinking water. The 
overall pattern of the sabotage and its technical savvy suggests the guidance of the very 
officials who tended to the nation's infrastructure during Saddam Hussein's long reign, 
current Iraqi officials say. The only reasonable conclusion, said Aiham Alsammarae, the 
Iraqi electricity minister, is that the sabotage operation is being led by former members of 
the ministries themselves, possibly aided by sympathetic holdovers. "They know what they are 
doing," Dr. Alsammarae said. "I keep telling our government, 'Their intelligence is much 
better than the government's.' " Sabah Kadhim, a senior official at the Iraqi Interior 
Ministry, said he believed the sabotage was part of a larger, two-faceted plan that included 
the terror operations that have killed so many Iraqis over the last two years.